---
id: 12
date: 2017-01-01 11:08:00 -5
tags:
- self
title: New Year = New You
---
While I am constantly trying to improve myself, my life, my job, and just about
anything else that I can - there is something about the blank slate of a new
year that I really enjoy for new goals. Last year I set the goal of making a
new dance video every day and posting it online. I had been getting coaching in
popping and wanted to get good at it. My thinking was that if I posted a video
every day I would feel compelled to improve quickly so that I wouldn't be
embarrassed by the videos. Rather than trying to measure the time I spent
practicing I would instead be measuring something simple (did I post a video or
not) and it would drive me to practice. That was the theory. In practice it
turns out I really don't care if there are videos of me poorly dancing on the
internet, which was a surprising outcome. In retrospect I should have forseen
this as my lessons were being given to me in a very busy square in the center
of Vancouver so I had grown accustomed to people seeing me be terrible at
dancing, but as this was a recent change it didn't occur to me. I stopped
making videos after about two months when I realized that it wasn't having the
intended effect.

This year I am picking something a bit safer - I am going to meditate for an
hour every day. I have previously done 100+ days in a row of 20 minutes in the
morning and 20 minutes at night so I know this is well within my capabilities.
I found meditation to be very helpful for me in both increasing my self-control
and in increasing my overall sense of calm. I would find myself walking to the
sink thinking "I'll wash this plate later" and then washing it anyway. I use an
app to time my meditation so I know that I've meditated on about 45% of days
since I started doing it a few years ago, and while I do continue to feel the
impacts if has made on me (in particular in terms of my very limited reactions
to stress) I know I would be better off if I were doing it more frequently. The
time periods in which I meditate are some of my happiest and most productive.

But meditation is like exercising but for your brain - and while I know there
are some wacky people out there who actually enjoy (or at least claim) to enjoy
exercising - I am not one of them, and meditation is no different. It takes
effort to get on the cushion and sit for 30 minutes (which is after all the
entire point) so I'm not amazing at doing it - even though I really believe it
is one of the best things I can be doing. So starting another streak seems like
a good resolution, especially as if I am meditating frequently then a lot of my
other goals like eating healthier or spending more time learning often end up
coming along for free.

I have put together a poster on which I have drawn out all of the months with
places to mark off each session, my morning session and my evening session.
This worked well for me last time I tried a streak so I figure it will again.
I also am not going around blabbing to everyone about how this is what I'm doing
for 2017. While I know some people are able to use social shame to keep
themselves accountable I am really just not that fixated on what other people
think so it isn't very effective for me. And when you talk about a goal your
mind feels a little bit of the pleasure of achieving the goal (or so I read
somewhere anyway) and it slightly drops your drive to actually achieve the goal.
But I am writing about it on here because lol, ain't no one gonna read this.

My primary (only one that counts really) resolution is to meditate for an hour
a day. However I break it up is fine as long as I hit the hour. I am planning on
a 30 minute session in the morning and a 30 minute session at night. While I am
not working this is obviously no problem at all, but working will put pressure
on me, especially if I am commuting into Boston. I have meditated on the train
before though and I can do that if needed. I have secondary goals that I am
also going to keep for as long as I can but that I expect won't last the year.
Those are to write for an hour a day, to code for an hour a day, and to jobhunt
for an hour a day. Once I have a gig obviously the jobhunt part will go away,
and I will also likely then cut down to write or code for an hour a day. But
until then I should be able to keep those up for a while.

I presently have a non new years related goal of cutting my weight down to 180.
I was at 215 when I begin and I am presently around 200. I was technically
obese by BMI, but I also weight train so I didn't look unhealthy or anything.
Cutting to 180 will give me roughly 10% body fat.

I am also going to dance more although I don't have explicit goals around this.
It is part of my general goal to spend less time consuming and more time
producing. So less watching or reading and more writing, making, dancing,
coding, etc.

I started the year intending to sit for 730 sessions and now am 729 away from
my goal.

Ain't no stoppin what can't be stopped. (I have also already hit my coding
and writing goals for the day and it isn't even noon yet.)
